Mansi Agarwal 
From: Akash Tomar 
Sent: 08 March 2021 18:43 
To: Mansi Agarwal 
Subject: FW: Analysis alert: Fiji - 14 Dec 2020 -For Asset EY Suva 

From: CORE PLUS <noreply@controlrisks.com> 
Sent: Tuesday, December 15, 2020 6:06 AM 
To: Akash Tomar <Akash.Tomar@gds.ey.com> 
Subject: Analysis alert: Fiji - 14 Dec 2020 - For Asset EY Suva 


Tuesday 15 December 2020 


This incident occurred approximately 2.08 km from EY Suva 

Fiji 

Continue to plan journeys accounting for disruption due to passage of 
Tropical Cyclone Yasa (Revised)

 
TRAVEL 

Level: Advisory 
Location: Fiji 
Category: Cyclone, Flood, Landslide, Transport disruption 

Members in Fiji in the coming days should continue to plan journeys accounting 
for disruption due to the passage of Tropical Cyclone Yasa. The weather system, 
currently located between Fiji and Vanuatu, has intensified into a Category 2 
cyclone (second lowest on a five-tier scale). According to the Fiji Meteorological 
Service (FMS), Yasa will likely further strengthen into a Category 3 cyclone (middle) 
by 15 December, while moving south-east towards Fiji. The storm is expected to 
bring heavy rain and strong winds to most of the country upon its arrival. Flight 
disruption is possible, including at Nadi (NAN) and Nausori (SUV) international 
airports on Viti Levu island. 

Advice 

1 



· 
The intensity and trajectory of tropical storms can change abruptly. Monitor 
the FMS website for up-to-date information on weather conditions. Be 
prepared to adjust itineraries at short notice. 

· 
We do not hold specific information on flights and other modes of 
transport. Liaise with the relevant providers to reconfirm schedules and 
access to facilities before setting out. 

· 
Flash floods and landslides are possible during and following heavy rain. 
Avoid coastal and low-lying areas and do not travel through flooded areas. If 
you encounter a flooded road, turn around and find another route to your 
destination. 

· 
Disruption to essential services, such as electricity supplies, is possible as a 
result of heavy rain and strong winds. Charge all communication devices 
and, where feasible, keep extra batteries for backup. 

· 
Liaise with local contacts and monitor our alerts on Fiji for updates. 

More detail 

The FMS has issued a heavy rain warning for the Yasawa and Mamanuca island 
groups, as well as for the eastern part of Viti Levu, Vanua Levu, Taveuni, and other 
nearby smaller islands. Such conditions could lead to flooding and landslides in 
vulnerable areas. 

We hope you will find our services of interest and value. Do not hesitate to contact 
us if you have any questions or feedback about this service. 

Thank youOnline Solutions, Control Risks 

For more information contact onlinesolutions@controlrisks.com 


Click here to unsubscribe or change your subscription preferences. www.controlrisks.com 

2 



