Mansi Agarwal 
From: Akash Tomar 
Sent: 08 March 2021 18:44 
To: Mansi Agarwal 
Subject: FW: Analysis alert: Fiji - 18 Dec 2020 -For Asset EY Suva 

From: CORE PLUS <noreply@controlrisks.com> 
Sent: Friday, December 18, 2020 3:46 PM 
To: Akash Tomar <Akash.Tomar@gds.ey.com> 
Subject: Analysis alert: Fiji - 18 Dec 2020 - For Asset EY Suva 


Friday 18 December 2020 


This incident occurred approximately 2.08 km from EY Suva 

Fiji 

Vanua Levu island: Minimise non-essential movement following 
passage of Severe Tropical Cyclone Yasa (Correction)

 
TRAVEL 

Level: Advisory 
Location: Fiji 
Category: Cyclone, Infrastructure outage, Transport disruption 

Members in Vanua Levu island until at least 19 December should minimise nonessential 
movement following the passage of Severe Tropical Cyclone Yasa. The 
cyclone, currently a Category 3 (third highest on a five-tier scale), made landfall on 
Vanua Levu on 17 December. It has since exited Fiji and is moving in a south-east 
direction away from the country. The authorities have allowed public transport to 
resume and businesses to re-open. A nationwide curfew is also in place for 18 
December. The curfew will be from 17.00-06.00 (all times local) in Vanua Levu 
and from 20.00-05.00 in the rest of the country. 

Advice 

Inbound travellers 

1 



· 
Continue to defer travel to Fiji due to restrictions related to COVID-19. 

Managers 

· 
Regularly monitor the status of staff after Yasa’s passage. Establish 
communication protocols for vulnerable employees and ensure they adhere 
to them. Telecommunications, including mobile internet services, may be 
temporarily disrupted in affected areas, making it difficult to contact stranded 
employees. 

· 
Continue to monitor the Fiji Meteorological Service (FMS) website for up-todate 
information on weather conditions. 
· 
Ensure staff comply with all local government directives amid ongoing 
emergency response efforts. 

Those in worst-affected areas 

· 
Members in Vanua Levu, following the passage of Yasa, should minimise 
non-essential movement until at least 19 December. 
· 
Any essential movement should be conducted after reconfirming the 
feasibility of overland journeys via local contacts before setting out. 

· 
Avoid low-lying and coastal areas due to the potential for flash floods caused 
by heavy rain. In addition, roads in the worst-affected areas are likely to be 
blocked by debris and flooding. Do not attempt to drive through flooded 
areas and stay away from fallen trees and power lines. If you come across a 
flooded road, turn around and find another route to your destination. 

In-country employees 

· 
Members in other parts of Fiji, including the capital Suva, should plan 
journeys accounting for disruption during the storm’s passage until at least 
19 December. 

· 
The intensity and trajectory of tropical storms can change abruptly. Continue 
to monitor the FMS website for up-to-date information on weather conditions. 
Be prepared to adjust itineraries at short notice. 

· 
Further short-notice disruption to transport due to the cyclone’s passage, 
including at Nadi (NAN) and Nausori (SUV, both Viti Levu island) 
international airports. We do not hold specific information on flights and 
other modes of transport. If planning to travel in areas affected by Yasa, 
reconfirm transport bookings with the relevant service providers. In the event 
of any cancellations, your travel agent will be able to assist with alternative 
arrangements. 

More detail 

Strong winds are still expected in the rest of Fiji, with rough to very rough seas for 
18 December. There is still potential for storm surges at low lying coastal areas, 
with heights of up to 10 feet (3 metres) possible during high tide in the evening of 18 

2 



December. Flooding in low-lying areas and areas near water bodies remain 
possible in Vanua Levu and low-lying areas of eastern Viti Levu. 

At least two people have reportedly died as a result of the storm. Twenty-one 
houses and a community hall were destroyed by Yasa in Tiliva (Bua province, 
Vanua Levu), where the storm made landfall. Parts of Vanua Levu have been 
rendered inaccessible by flood waters and are without communications but 
authorities are working to restore essential services in affected areas. 

A nationwide COVID-19 related curfew, from 23.00-4.00, will go into effect from 19 
December. 

Flight cancellations have been reported at Nadi and Nausori international 
airports until at least 18 December. The Fiji Natural Disaster Management Office 
(NDMO) has suspended all ferry and public transport services until further notice. 
All schools and bank branches under the Association of Banks in Fiji are also 
closed. The NDMO has assured the public that essential services will remain 
available. 

Infrastructure damage from strong winds and severe flooding has been reported in 
villages on Koro and Taveuni islands. Power outages and disruption to water supply 
and telecommunications have been reported, including in Viti Levu. This may last 
several days or even weeks. Following the passage of former severe tropical 
cyclone Harold in April, power was not restored for several weeks. Yasa may also 
exacerbate existing water supply issues in southern Naitasiri province (Central 
division, Viti Levu). 

We hope you will find our services of interest and value. Do not hesitate to contact 
us if you have any questions or feedback about this service. 

Thank youOnline Solutions, Control Risks 

For more information contact onlinesolutions@controlrisks.com 


Click here to unsubscribe or change your subscription preferences. www.controlrisks.com 

3 



